Jonathan, you came from this address.
You were in the hall in the,
the House chamber.
What was your impression of the speech?
Knowing that he had multiple audiences
there?
Yeah, it was pretty extraordinary,
Deanna.
I mean, to be there
in the chamber watching
Prime Minister Netanyahu deliver
those remarks were few things
that stood out for me.
Number one, it was a unity message.
Like, literally,
you had Democrats and Republicans
standing up and applauding.
You know,
I thought there was going to be
lots of empty seats.
There simply weren't.
It was a pretty full house.
And he complimented President Biden
and praised him as Jamie, said Andy
Kaufman of President Trump
of the Abraham Accords.
So he was sort of finding a way to praise
both sides.
That's number one.
Number two,
he talked about anti-Semitism.
He talked about what's happening
on our college campuses,
what's happening in the streets,
and how that is not just about protesting
policies of the government.
You're seeing people going
after Zionists and Jews.
And literally
while he was speaking outside
of the Capitol,
you had people
burning American flags
in front of Union Station.
I saw signs
as they came over here to the studio,
people saying things like,
any resistance is justified.
I mean, comparing that
those kind of that kind of language,
when you think about the babies
who were burned
and the women who were raped.
So he talked about that.
That was important.
And then thirdly,
I think he laid out a path forward.
He talked about hostages
and needs to get them home.
They talked about what a future
could look like for Israel
and a demilitarized Gaza,
like a vision of peace.
That, to me was really quite welcome.
But there are a lot of
dozens of Democrats boycotted the speech,
didn't show up.
A lot of those seats
where the Democrats
would have been seated
were congressional staffers
just showing up.
They're sitting there.
You know,
there may have been some empties,
but I watched Hakeem Jeffries
stand and applaud.
I watched Chuck Schumer
I watched almost every Democratic senator
stand and applaud.
So I hear what you're saying.
But I got to say,
I saw unity in that room.
I saw him try to appeal to both sides,
and I saw
people from both parties respond.
What you do at the ADL
is try to stamp out hate.
Of course, anti-Semitism, hate against
phobia, Islamophobia, racism, all of it.
How do you think that
Netanyahu's attempt to do that in
his speech is going to play?
I mean, I was getting a text from,
one American Jew
who said, okay,
it's fine
to call people useful idiots,
but how about,
like, a slight nod to people
who are genuinely upset about the,
what's happening in Gaza?
Well, I, I'm not.
And understanding
that you're also saying
the signs that you just described,
which is just plain hate.
And he talked about the director
of national intelligence
acknowledging a few weeks ago
that Iran is involved in these protests,
something we've been seeing NATO
for a long time.
But he did something
very interesting, Diana,
before the speech really got started.
He called out some of the folks
that he had brought over
as part of his delegation,
including, for example,
a Bedouin soldier.
Which was interesting, cause
I think most Americans
don't realize there
Israeli Muslims in the IDF.
And then he had an Ethiopian
Israeli soldier
who ran eight miles on October the 7th.
So I point this out
because he demonstrated
the diversity of Israeli society.
I think you pointed this out earlier
in a way that surprised a lot of people.
He could have come with
just decorated Jewish veterans.
He didn't do that.
He brought a more diverse delegation.
And I think that sends a message.
I just
to push back
just a little bit
about about all the unity,
you know,
several Israelis
from both sides of the aisle
were texting me during the speech.
And what I heard from them
is that that was, in effect,
a very celebratory speech.
that really does not fit
and that there is an alternate
reality on the ground
that's going on
both in Gaza and in Israel.
As we know,
in the north, 60,000
plus Israelis, are displaced.
There has been an extraordinary impact
on the economy.
And then, of course,
there is the devastating reality
of the number of deaths
in Gaza,
Palestinians, the humanitarian disaster.
So, he had a welcome
audience there today, but he did ignore
what I'm hearing from Israelis
is a very dire reality on the ground.
Look,
there is no question
that that is an incredibly
difficult situation.
And every civilian life
lost is a tragedy.
Every Palestinian
woman or child
who was killed inadvertently,
no matter what the IDF tries to do,
that is a tragedy.
We should mourn every
one of those deaths.
But he talked about, for example,
the dire situation in Gaza
and how they are trying
to bring in supplies.
He talked about the situation
in the North, like you're pointing out,
and the need to bring those people back
to their homes, 60 or 80,000 Israelis.
And he talked about the need
to bring the hostages home.
I know at ADL
and we're folks
at fighting
aid here at home,
but we all wear the dog tags
because we want these civilians,
these innocent people back,
including, by the way, dozens of them.
I think
maybe it's eight Americans at this point.
So I think he tried to address
that, Jamie.
But look, if you've lost a child,
if you're I think about my friends,
the Polands.
I was with the Nazis before we came on.
Their. Their sons are both held in Gaza.
I can't even begin to grasp
the unspeakable pain
they deal with every day.
We have got to get those kids home.
So I hope they get a deal very fast.
So we can see on air.
And we can see Hersh back
home, safe and sound.
And all the hostages, once and for all.
Hope there is a deal
that will bring those hostages
home as quickly as possible.
Jonathan Greenblatt, thanks very much.
Jamie, thanks to you as well.
I want to go see this,
began Mark,
as he's
been covering the demonstrators
out there in the streets of Washington.
Jamie, give us a sense
of what's been going on.
lots and lots of
demonstrators and protesters
throughout the Capitol
around the Capitol building.
But I won't say it all ended here
at Union Station.
This is the remnants of one U.S.
flag that was burned here
over in the distance.
So you can see the the ashes there.
That's the remnants of another flag.
I want to show you
sort of the bell over here, though.
The liberty, the copy of the Liberty Bell
that's out in front of the station
that's been covered in graffiti.
And then the Columbus Memorial
has also been covered in graffiti here.
And, Jonathan,
if you can show all three U.S.
flags on the three flagpoles,
massive flag poles out in front of Union
Station have been pulled down
and Palestinian flags
have been put up in their place.
Most the protesters
a few dozen,
maybe 100 or so, still gathered here.
Most of the protesters have left,
but you can see the number
of police officers
in front of Union Station.
And I'm looking over across the way here,
and there are lots of
police with shields now
and heavy vehicles.
So it looks like most
protesters are leaving
and police will come back in
and bring this place back to order.
Well all right media,
let's hope it's peaceful over there.
Bigo Marquez reporting for us.
Thanks very much. Now.
Thank you so much.
And with us
now is Republican Senator
John Thune of South Dakota.
Senator,
thank you so much for being here.
Really great to see you
and to have you here.
first, generally speaking, your reaction
to Prime Minister Netanyahu's remarks.
strong speech.
And, as as is
usually the case with,
the Prime minister,
very well articulated.
and I thought he
he hit all the right points.
I think the one thing that he needs
to do for people in this country,
and for that matter, people,
all around
the world is connect
the dots back to Iran.
And the fact that Israel
is the only thing standing
between Iran and the United States,
which they consider
to be the great Satan.
And so Iran is behind
all the mining activities in that region.
whether it's Hezbollah in the
in the north or the Houthis in Yemen,
or Hamas, right there in the Gaza Strip.
But I thought he was really effective in
in that in particular,
and also articulating a vision
of what it could like,
could look like in the future
if you had an integrated Middle East
and a direct allies demilitarized, Gaza.
And that, of course,
means that you've got to get
rid and eliminate Hamas.
I want to get back to
what you were just talking about.
Back to the Prime
Minister speech in a second.
I'm not sure if you were able
to hear our reporter, Miguel Marquez,
who was talking about
the protesters outside.
Specifically, he was reporting on
and showing,
the American flag being lowered,
the Palestinian flag being raised.
We even saw some red triangles.
we're showing it now.
I don't know if you can see it,
but we even saw some red triangles
on some of the statues.
what's your reaction to that?
Well, I think it's it's disgraceful.
It's, shameful
and the kind of thing that we shouldn't
see in this country.
But again,
as the Prime Minister pointed out
today, a lot of these activities
that are happening here
in the United States,
Iran is behind them.
They are trying to create
tumult and instability and chaos and,
use in fueling all these protests
and the violence, particularly
the anti-Semitic violence
in this country.
that's Iranian activity.
And that's why they have to be stopped,
and that's
why it's so important
that we continue to support Israel,
including, as the Prime minister said,
give us the tools faster
and we will finish the job.
they've got to get this, this thing
over with and,
and send a clear statement to the world
that this kind of behavior
and the kind of thing
that we're seeing right here in the U.S.
and right here in this city today,
just can't be tolerated.
Senator,
one of Prime Minister Netanyahu's
predecessors, Ehud Barak,
who we understand
and we should tell our viewers
who might not know,
is not from the same party
as Prime Minister Netanyahu.
and but nonetheless, he has somebody he's
somebody who has been intimately involved
in trying to get to peace.
He almost got there,
when Bill Clinton
had him
and Yasser Arafat in 2000,
here in the United States.
He said
very, very strongly
and very clearly to Wolf,
that he does not believe
that Prime Minister Netanyahu
actually wants to end the war
because it would mean
the end of his own political viability
at home.
And that might even mean,
that hostages stay longer.
Are you concerned about
I mean, you're a politician.
You understand what's going on in Israel?
Are you concerned about the notion
that Bibi Netanyahu
isn't trying as hard
as he can to get this deal because of
his own concerns about his own future?
I don't think that
I've met with him in Israel.
I've met with, Ehud Barak in Israel,
previously as well.
And obviously they have
political differences there.
But those aside,
my sense coming out of this was is
he is desperate to end this
because this is putting the lives
of Israeli citizens at
risk every single day.